All righty folks.
I'm gonna get started for the
day.
So the last couple of classes
that we've had, we've been
talking about some of the core
fundamentals of HTML.
And 1st lecture we defined what
HTML was.
We defined what CSS was.
We defined what JavaScript or JS
was.
We defined how to create a basic
layout of a project.
We got our IDE set up and then
we started to talk about some of
the common tags.
Websites are not just static
content.
Sometimes they're dynamic.
And generally there'll be other
forms of media embedded.
And we've looked at being able
to look at like images. We've
looked at links.
And while those are present,
that's they're not necessarily
embedded.
And we'll actually discuss what
that looks like today.
So there is some required
readings.
For images, videos and audio
contents taking.
Embedding via iframes, adding
vector graphics and then
responsive images.
So.
Images are.
Generally gonna be relative
URLs. They should have some
meaningful name given to them.
You'll attribute the source if
it's linked to an external
website, it will absolutely be a
URL.
If it's hosted within your site,
it's gonna be a relative URL.
So all non decorative images, so
things that aren't just your
logo or.
To put it more aptly, things
like an information icon, a more
icon.
An image that helps convey
content to a user needs to have
an alt text provided.
This allows.
For when your site has
completely rendered to show some
form of content to the user will
also enabling voice.
Text to speech readers the
ability to describe that content
for those that are visually
impaired.
Search engines might use this to
understand the content.
And there's a quote set of
quotations around to understand.
Search engines don't really know
content, they just attribute.
Different.
Relevancies to the content,
creating a graph and then again
the browser will display the
image if it can't be loaded or
display the text if it can't be.
The image can't load.
So some things are purely gonna
be decorative.
So background images because you
wanna super awesome picture as
your background for your site or
the background of a box.
Any custom headers?
Border images, bullets, most
pointers, things that just add
some flair to your site and make
it more unique.
You don't go through an add in
a.
Like both images, you don't
create an image tag for those
either.
You should be using CSS to
define that content.
Remember, HTML is for marking.
How a page will be seen and
defines the semantic values to
it?
CSS is the cascading style
sheets where we actually say,
hey, we want to match on these
identifiers selectors and we
want to apply this kind of
handling for consistency across
the website.
There is an attribute called
title on images.
It should be avoided.
The support for it is.
Inconsistent for screen readers.
Browsers only display the title
on Hover.
You can put the title in the
information.
In the page content instead.
So normally you'll see an
attribution underneath an image.
That's who it's from. Any
relevant information around the
parties that are there within
when it was taken.
Any other attributions?
As actual isolated content.
You can define the size of your
images via the width and height
attributes.
By default, browsers will render
the entire image as it is.
So if you have a 5000 by 5000
pixel image, you're gonna get a
5000 by 5000 pixel image on the
web page.
That's not accessible.
Most monitors can't display all
of that at once.
The value of these attributes
are unitless, so it's assumed in
pixels.
It is a raw number that you put
in.
Obviously you wrap it in a
string so that you can ensure
that you're following the proper
syntax with attributes.
The browser will set aside space
in the page according to the
attributes, even if the content
isn't loaded yet.
So this coupled with the alt
text gives a nice little
placeholder for where your image
will load up.
So it even if you don't have
some valid content, you can
still start to mark that up for
yourself.
And I don't know how many people
have gone through a page and
noticed, hey, my content
shifting around because images
are being loaded.
This is referred to as popping
and can be jarring to users.
It actually reduces the user
experience.
By setting up these defaults,
you allow the content to be
statically rendered, or at least
as close to statically rendered
as possible, and give a
consistent experience for the
user so they can continue
reading the content regardless
of whether or not the image is
actually loaded.
Figure in fig.
Caption can be used semantically
connect figures with their
captions, so.
You have a figure that would
wrap your image and then you'll
have a fig caption that will
say, hey this this caption
belongs to this image. Whenever
you look in a textbook because
all textbooks are written in a
form of a markdown language.
It would be structured something
similar to this, where you have
the content.
Shown.
And then you'll have that
description underneath the Fig
caption would be that
association.
So you there is an ordering for
Fig caption.
It either needs to be the first
child or the last child in the
figure.
This is just to enable the
proper alignment within the
page.
You can include more than just
images in figure.
So figure is just a piece, a
semantic piece of markdown that
says, hey, here's some content,
and I want to associate like a
caption with it.
So custom code if you want to
display that in a preformatted
block, you absolutely can do so.
And that allows you to go
through and do things like.
Here's a simple Python program.
Here is a block of code that
does this. If you wanted to
break it up.
Obviously.
This works well for HTML.
Please don't do this in your
actual code for like JavaScript.
This is something different.
So Big caption versus alt. You
might be going.
Why is this a thing? We have the
alt which gives alternative text
on the image.
Why do I need this?
A caption.
Well, the captions always gonna
be displayed alongside the
image.
The alt text is specifically for
the image when it's not
rendered.
And this will always be a very
concise description of the
image.
Remember, keep it super simple.
There are a couple of image
formats that can be used.
One is roast beef and one is
vector image, but I'm not
talking about like the dot web P
or dot the avif or any of the
specific file extensions.
A raster image is an image that
stores information about its
color per pixel in a bit.
So if you want a very high
quality image, you'll go with
this.
Zooming in does not really scale
well with raster images, so
these are very standard PNG
images JPEG images where if you
blow them up to 400 times their
standard size they look blocky
and pixelated.
Whereas vector images commonly
in SVG.
It stores the shape and color
information and it works well
for low detail.
So you can.
Build a an SVG that is a 24 by
24 pixel image and have it scale
up to any size and it look the
same.
The quality doesn't dissipate.
It does have the downside of
being more memory intensive or
memory expensive.
Roster images for the lab.
Use compression to reduce the
file size.
You can think of raster images
as being a way to quickly render
content or render images, but at
a low quality.
You can have lossless or lossy
out compression algorithms. It
refers to whether or not you can
actually lose information of the
image.
A lossy compression algorithm,
which would be an L1 gzip
compression.
You can have.
Some of the quality loss during
that compression.
Or a loss list where it doesn't
lose any information.
Again, when you have a lossy
compression algorithm, you'll
end up with smaller files.
But again, a reduced quality. So
it's a trade off between quality
and page loading.
So JPEG is a raster image.
It's lossy.
It's great for high high detail
images, but once you start
compressing it down to save
space, you're gonna lose
information about it and it's
gonna look a little bit blockier
or a little bit degraded in
quality in comparison to the
original file.
P and GS are lossless, and
they're great for low detail
images.
So simple graphics, logos,
icons.
Very limited detail.
Images.
There's a GIF for some people
like to call it GIF if that is
used.
C.
Exit left a kid enjoy the class.
But a GIF is just an animation.
We've all dealt with GIFs.
The only thing is it's low
quality content.
And then there is an SVG.
It's great for.
Low detail images.
It's great for high detail
images. You can use it for
graphics logos.
It is a lossless compression, so
it does retain its fairly close
to its original size, and it
does have that dot SVG you'll
notice here in the mine types we
have the image JPEG, the image
PNG image, GIF.
So that's just going to tell
your browser how to render
those, but then you'll notice
with the image.
Svg XML.
The way Svgs are created is a
markup, so that's part of why
you are able to retain at scale
the original image.
Raw photo images.
Do not put raw images on your
website.
They are huge.
This will absolutely slow down
your page.
Like nobody wants to download
half a gig of data to see a
single image.
Maybe if you're a professional
photographer, you might want to
store the raws for people to
access as like part of a file
system Explorer.
There's other ways to host it.
Please don't use the raw images.
Use something that is going to
be small.
You wanna keep it under a mag?
Generally, under a half MB.
If possible.
But there's a lot of complexity
around search engines.
But know that your site, if it's
slower, will get ranked lower in
search engines.
Part of visibility is optimizing
the search engine.
So you can do a web export in a
lot of different applications.
Photoshop has it.
Inkscape has it.
Kareta has it. GIMP has it.
And for those that aren't aware,
outside of Photoshop, those are
image editing tools and SVG
tools.
There's also online tools that
you can use and it didn't do it
again.
So you can absolutely go through
and.
Resize it.
Google also offers it right off
the box, but.
Oh, it says minimize.
There's tons of ways you can go
through and optimize things for
your website, especially the
images.
So use higher compression.
When you use JPEG images.
This will enable you to have
smaller jpegs.
They're they're gonna be larger
in general because of.
The.
Detail that they have.
When you do the higher
compression, though, it does
mean that your file will be
smaller, but it's also gonna
drop in quality.
So choose the right compression
algorithm that keeps it within a
few 100 kilobytes if possible.
If it's gonna be a Meg or two.
And you can't get away from it.
That's OK, but try not to have a
lot of those on your site.
Remember, not everybody's gonna
have the same Internet
connection speed and they will
be impacted by this.
So be cautious of the size of
your images.
Images that are larger than 2400
pixels.
Nobody's gonna see that whole
thing up front.
Like most, resolutions aren't
even close to that. Unless
you're buying a 4K monitor.
Or an 8K monitor. You're not
gonna have that resolution.
A lot of people are running
1080P, maybe 1440P.
The great thing about smaller
images is that they tend to be
smaller in size by default.
This makes sense because in
raster images we're storing
information about per pixel.
In an array.
But when you start to blow them
up to be bigger or stretch them,
they get funky again.
It's all about striking a
reasonable balance where your
image looks nice at a larger
scale, but not necessarily.
Highest level of compression.
So you can use image thumbnails,
which is just a small preview of
the full size image.
These usually are able to be
clicked.
See the full image.
Think of Google's images search.
All of those individual images
that are shown are all
thumbnails.
You can click into them.
Have that side panel open and
navigate over.
You also use images like
thumbnails in your File
Explorer.
It's the same thing.
You wanna optimize how quickly
you're loading content so it's
easily accessible using
thumbnails.
It's a much smaller image.
And only loading the larger
image when the user wants to.
So this way the impact is much
lower, but if somebody does want
that full original image, you
can absolutely include it.
So you can use images as
thumbnails as well, anytime
you've seen a pop up that it's
like hey, I wanna click on this
image to you know see it and you
get taken to a different site.
Same thing here.
This is exactly what they're
doing.
If it is a local.
File. So again this is that
thumbnail you have cottage.jpg
which is the full size image and
then it has an image that's
using the thumbnail.
Being nested.
Remember, anything can be dusted
into the A tag.
Choosing the A tag to act as the
link to the larger image.
Is gonna be a beneficial way to
slow down the loading.
You'll only the browser only
grabs what it needs when it
needs it.
So you'll want to make your
images responsive.
They should work well on a wide
variety of displays, sizes and
densities.
So if somebody's browsing your
site on a 480P monitor and
someone that's browsing on your
site on a 1080P monitor should
get relative usage.
Relative experience to one
another.
Obviously you might use a lower
res image on smaller sizes, but
this also applies to when you're
resizing your website.
So how your screen is?
Solely on your operating system.
A lot of smartphones have a
scale, so generally you'll have
a 24 by 2448. By 4896 by 96128
by one, 28512 by 512, a 256 by
two, 56512 by.
512 tends to be the largest you
get for an image resolution.
One, it's because it displays
fairly nicely, but two it allows
for devices that have higher
resolutions to use those higher
res versions.
There are devices like most
smartphones and Mac Retina
displays that use multiple
device pixels per displayed
pixel.
So they can dense the content
into a single pixel in Len
displayed out.
Things that look sharp on high.
On regular displays may look
fuzzy on high res displays. So.
Just because you have.
A like a crisp 1080P image.
But then you swap to, say, a 4K
monitor which is high res.
Going from one to the other may
not necessarily look the same.
This is why you want to support
multiple densities.
So you can use the source set.
Attribute to specify a set of
sources that display different
densities. So you have your
common image which is the
source.
You will have.
A source set that has the
standard PNG and then the other
PNG that you want to use and
have it at what scale it will be
or what density it'll use.
So.
The first logo will look blurry
on high res displays because it
only has the 75 width pixel or
75 pixels wide.
And because the high res images
will pull part of it over to
make that high res.
It'll look very low res on those
monitors.
With source set and large images
we can use.
Or we can have a similar
experience as we would on a
lower res monitor.
Source is a fall back.
Not every browser has support
for sourceset, and this is where
using the MDN site to look at
the various attributes in which
browsers support them is crucial
when.
Developing a site for the common
browser experience.
This attribute's gonna be
supported a lot of browsers
nowadays are chromium based
which.
Microsoft Edge.
Google Chrome brave.
Opera GX, take your pack. So
effectively you have the Safari
browser and Firefox as pretty
much the only non chromium based
browsers.
There's a couple of others, but
none with a large enough market
share call out.
So you do want to have a comma
separated list that is a
relative URL.
So that the browser can select
the correct one based off of the
density.
You do need to list the original
source in the source set again
when you have source and
sourceet source acts as a fall
back.
So.
The display density also needs
to be set when you include other
images. So if I wanted to do a
215 width PNG, I would do SC,
hyphen, logo hyphen 215 W dot
PNG space 3X.
You need to mention which
density.
The file is being applied to.
And the browser picks based off
of the density.
Finding a balance for this is
crucial because on devices that
are have smaller displays, it's
a waste of bandwidth to have
larger images.
But small images look blurry on
large displays.
One size may not suit all
displays.
It depends on what's needed.
So you can use some testing
purpose.
Websites where you can use
placeholder.com and then give it
a size of dimensions.
So if you wanna have a specific
height and width, you can use
that as a template.
You can use creative photos from
Flickr.
This is a dog that's 300 by 150.
Sorry.
You can also.
Give sizes of images that you
want to match at specific media
queries, so you'll see here
where it's like Max width 300
pixels.
So that's saying that on devices
that are a maximum of 300 pixels
wide, you'll apply the Max size
of 300.
When there is one that is 800
pixels wide for Max width, we
want to be 600 pixels.
And then every other case, we
wanna be 1280.
We'll go through.
We'll leave our source because
we need that coupled with the
source set, we say cottage.jpg
320 width cottage2.jpg 800 width
and cottage three.jpg 1280
width.
So this allows you to do it
based off the size of this the
display as opposed to the
display density.
In the previous example we had.
A comma delimited width where.
Max Width was 200 pic.
Sorry the Max screen width was
300 pixels wide.
We took up only 2/3 of the
space.
The same thing when our display
was only 800 pixels wide.
Otherwise, we default it to that
full image.
It is a set of comma separated
media conditions plus the size
and then the last size that will
be our default.
When we talk about media
conditions and sizes, they're
gonna be separated by the space
and CSS uses very similar
conditions.
They're called media queries,
and we'll discuss those at a
later date.
When we're using sizes here, we
do need to use the PX unit.
We'll talk about units like RAM
or DP a little bit later, but
for now we can just.
Say all of our sizes are in
pixels.
Is there any questions so far?
So as I mentioned, meeting
conditions are mostly used in
CSS.
You can have some up here in
HTML elements, but not often.
Generally, if you're going to do
something stylistic, you're
going to go through and provide
it via CSS.
Image would be a case where you
may not necessarily use CSS for
it, but it might be beneficial
if it's asvg. For example,
you'll scale it up instead of.
Defining a specific.
Site in the sizes.
The condition is based off of
the browser window size, so when
you resize it is when the media
query'll be done and then the
CSS will be applied.
It's always in a set of
parentheses and it's always
gonna be a colon separated
feature.
So it's the property name, semi
colon, the value you're looking
for.
There is a lot more to this than
tax, but for now this is what
we'll focus with.
So.
Part of displaying our content
is ensuring that we have a clear
focus as to how the user
experience is going to be.
We try to support the most
amount of devices as possible.
So that you know.
The users on a phone have the
same experience as those on a
tablet which have the same
experience as those on a
computer or on a TV.
A big part of it is being
consistent and usable.
You might be thinking, holy
crap, this is a lie.
How do we manage all of this?
I promise there are tools that
we'll talk about that make this
so much simpler and.
Luckily, we have lots of
examples.
Back to the screen sizes.
So the media condition looks
for.
Sorry.
It'll go through the list to see
which set of meeting conditions
it matches.
It will use the final size.
If no media conditions are met,
so say for example if your
window IS300 pixels, the image
is going to be 200 pixels wide.
If it's at anywhere between 301
and 800, it'll be 600, and then
anything above 800 it's 1280.
So.
It will use the most relevant
condition it matched with, not
the just the first condition
it's matched with.
Density is automatically
considered with sourceite.
It will use.
The appropriately sized image
based off of the sizes. So that
means that if you're on a Retina
display and it's using A2 exit
it has requires a 2X image even
if you have it set to the
browser window being 800, it'll
still use that 2.
X image but at the proper size.
Sourceet in this case, when
we're talking about the width,
we can also do this something
similar for height.
Each image has the West Unit,
which is its natural width and
pixels so.
That's going to be the image
size in pixels, not what you
want to render it at.
And this is a promise operated
pair of URL and image sizes.
And then the space acts as the
delimiter.
And This is why we say use
hyphens to name your content.
Don't use spaces because it's
handled uniquely depending on
the browser and you can't
guarantee that they're all going
to be handled correctly.
Plus, we have cases where space
is acting like a delimiter.
Besides, the attribute is saying
how large it'll be displayed in
the window, whereas the source
set will specify how large the
images are.
Normally that makes sense.
Excuse me.
Thus far we've talked about
providing the same image at
different sizes.
Sometimes it's preferable to
provide entirely different
images on different sizes.
So maybe you want to show just a
cabin when you have a small a
small section with the cabin and
you have a small screen, but
when you're have a larger screen
real estate you want to show an
entire.
Plot that.
That cabin sits on.
That is what makes up the art
direction.
It uses.
Different images at different
screen sizes.
But you have to construct your
HTML with this intent.
So this might look fine on a
larger screen.
But on a screen that's too
small, you won't really be able
to see a lot of the detail, so
you'll likely choose something
that's a little more bit more
apt to.
The little looks like a.
To get there, you might want to
take the original image, zoom it
up so that it's higher res at
that point, and then crop it.
Or screencap.
Just that section.
So.
We talk about using the image
tag.
But there is a picture tag which
allows us to do this art
direction.
We provide two sources, so.
When the media query so the Max
width is 400 pixels, we'll use
crop one when it's at 800
pixels, we use image two and the
original image is the cottage.
The image needs to be the last
element in the picture tag.
This is the default image that
will use.
So not every browser supports
picture.
Having that default image is
like hey, here is the content
that I want.
You can specify any number of
sources to say hey at these
various conditions.
These are all the images that I
wanna see.
Syntax for sizes and source is
media are the same.
So.
Media condition that matches
will get picked.
1st.
And it's done based off of the.
Sorry, off the browser size.
Sourceet is the exact same as
what you'd get for image, so if
you wanna have a source set that
has different widths, can
absolutely do that. If it's
something in between, you may
wanna choose to go with.
The.
Display scaling. So maybe you
have a 2X or 4X image.
Svg images.
Stands for scalable vector
image.
It's an XML format for
describing a vector image.
I'm not going to test you on how
to build an SVG.
I it's way out of scope for this
course.
It's something to know that,
hey, you can do a lot of really
fun stuff with svgs.
Just.
Please be mindful of contrast
ratios on the web.
Larger text needs to be a three
to one to its background.
And smaller text needs to be a 4
1/2 to one.
This is nowhere near that.
This is like a 1.1 to one.
Except for when the ORLD
exclamation point that would
suffice.
That portion.
Of.
Contrast ratios.
You can paste SVG code directly
into HTML.
That's going to be bulky if you
have to do it in multiple
places.
When in doubt, just store it as
a dot SVG file.
It's going to save a lot of
headache.
You can target it by CSS when it
is included in the HTML
directly.
Some browsers don't support
svgs.
Yeah, but browser support is
inconsistent on the web.
I just wanna say that really
clearly right now, not
everything's gonna be supported
by every browser and every
browser has their own way of
doing things.
You can give a source set to
specify an SVG for browsers.
So you use source to be a dot
PNG, so fall back for browsers
that don't support svgs.
But you then specify source set
to be an SVG and it will use
that if it's supported, and
that'll give the proper scaling
as needed.
You can use different fall back
methods for the picture as well.
So in the image you would
specify the PNG but as optional
sources for whether or not it's
supported by the browser will
use whichever it needs first,
so.
Your mobile devices will likely
support the web P most browsers
do.
In this case, if we find that we
our browser supports SVG first,
it'll use the SVG.
So videos can be embedded into a
web page.
This is something that's done in
line.
You can nest this into a
paragraph.
You can nest this into a link.
Should really nest your link
inside the video.
It doesn't need to have any
contact.
It can be an empty tag, but you
do need to specify the source.
You will notice here that again
to download the video, it's
using the relative URL. You can
only download from the
originating source, so you can't
go through and download another
websites image.
It will link it out instead.
So much like an image tag, the
video tag needs the source
specified.
It does need to be something
that is.
A dot MP4 dot web m.mov.
There's a couple of other video
formats and dot MKV.
And others.
There should not be a a YouTube
URL if meow URL.
Twitter URL that links to a
video. Tiktok, what have you?
It's not gonna render correctly.
If your browser doesn't support
the video format, you can
provide a link on the inside to
have it be downloaded when you
click it.
Generally, you'll want to
provide a download link.
This way people can view the
contents offline. If you don't
want to provide it, you don't
have to.
It's just a good rule of thumb.
So there.
Are various attributes that can
be used on video elements and
some of them are bullion
attributes.
So bullion attribute is a true
false attribute.
It can either be on or off.
So if the attribute is present.
It is classified as true or on
and if they're not set.
It's classified as off.
No, you can still use it as a
string and pass it through.
As either true or false.
That does change its underlying
type. I highly recommend using.
Either providing or not
providing the attribute.
Instead, don't go through and
include it as a string.
Umm.
There is a note here that says
you can do it as name equals
name or name equals empty when
the attribute's empty it's
treated as the attribute name.
In both cases it's on.
For it to be off, you can't have
it present.
So when you use the controls
attribute of the video element,
it allows you to have the play
pause and the track.
The audio it's built in right
out of the browsers media
controls.
You can see here that in the P
element it says that your
browser doesn't support HTML5
video.
It likely. That'd be a case.
That's where it's displayed that
your browser just does not have
the proper support for HTML5.
So there are some common
attributes that you can use on
videos.
Autoplay it starts playing upon
page load.
Avoid this.
This is a bad user experience.
I don't have anybody else, but I
hate it when I navigate to a web
page and it just starts *******
playing.
I don't wanna hear random ****
out of my tabs.
You'll get this out of a lot of
advertisements where their
autoplays are already set.
Loop. So if you want it to
constantly go back and restart
whenever it reaches the end, you
can have that.
You can have muted.
If you have the muted flag, the
audio is defaulted to being
quiet.
You can have a width and height.
This can be all set in CSS or
you can do this directly.
Again, it's in pixels.
You can have a poster, so it's.
The.
Image that you want to provide
when the video's not playing, so
think of it like a thumbnail.
There is a preload which is
none, so there's no information
fetched. Auto the video is
fetched beginning and then
metadata where it only grabs the
like core metadata of the file.
So they still have to load all
the content and it has to be
buffered before they start
watching. When you use metadata.
But if you use auto, it
downloads everything or preloads
everything into the browser
window.
Continues on.
In this example, there is a
video that sourced to my video
dot MP4 with the autoplay loop,
it's automatically muted.
It's a 400 by 300.
And it's automatically buffered.
And there is a thumbnail being
supplied with a link to download
it.
So not all browsers support the
same format.
Older browsers you're gonna see
a lot less support.
This makes sense because they
don't.
Don't have a lot of the newer
updates.
You can provide different
formats using source.
So.
Browser will pick the first one
that it's ports and then goes
off.
This is very much like we did
with the picture tag where we
provided multiple variants,
multiple varieties of the same
content in different formats.
You will notice that we don't
use the source in the video tag,
but we do have a source tag
itself. We do include the link
that we wanted to include for
downloading the video here, or
we'd include the text that says
hey, your browser doesn't
support videos.
You want to avoid.
Including the source tag when
you use the. I'm sorry the
source attribute when you
include the source tag.
Then you don't want it
potentially colliding.
You do want to specify the type,
so it'll be video slash MPEG
video slash M, Web M, web P.
This informs the browser what
kind of content to load instead
of just having a guess.
Audio can be embedded into a web
page.
It works exactly like video.
Where you have either the source
tag included or and no source
attribute, or you have a source
attribute and no source tags and
then all of the same Boolean
flags are included.
The only ones that are ignored
for audio attributes compared to
video is width and height and
the poster.
So you're not gonna display an
icon, or at least an image
instead of the actual content or
the bar when it's not playing
and it's gonna use a default
width and height.
So you can include text tracks
so subtitles or transcripts.
With the within the video or
audio tag.
This helps with accessibility
and it also improves search
engine results because they will
use the content of the VRT or
BVT.
Track you do specify what kind
it is and the source language.
So.
Sub kind of like to be captions,
descriptions, subtitles,
captions is transcripts.
You do need to use a web VVT.
File.
And.
It's web video text tracks.
That provide specific text
queues.
I will disclose this.
And then source language just
tells you what language the
actual content of that track is
in.
So you can have multiple tracks.
Which being used.
So say for example.
You have a podcast because
that's the craze nowadays and on
your on your blog site you post
a copy of your blog or your
podcast.
You include the audio and the
subtitles, but say you wanted to
reach.
Audiences in France, because you
speak French.
And maybe in China, because you
speak Mandarin, you can provide
all of those additional tracks
and it will use it based off of
the browser's set language.
You can.
It should be able to allow you
to choose as well.
So.
Captions. They provide a
transcript of audio for those
that can't hear, so that'll be
displayed in text and as it's
going.
But subtitles will provide
translation for audio content.
I'm gonna take a break here for
a minute.
Give folks like 10 minutes and
then we'll come back.
Yeah, you look.
Thank you.
Yeah, it's automatic.
It's not like I appreciate you
there approximately, because
it's gonna show you the pop up
screen.
Yeah. Yeah, it's like the yeah.
So you can actually log in
there.
Click your shots before they buy
it. There's no.
Way we'll always sell you.
And.
Replay.
Hey.
Hey, Clint.
I think.
Don't worry your.
Number one.
Good morning.
Alright, let's get back to the
last couple slides for today.
So you may or may not see object
and embed tags.
These are less likely to be used
nowadays.
We have capabilities of this in
JavaScript so.
There is a way to parse down
Markdown, PDF files, word
documents and actually have
those displayed.
And embedded into our pages.
Things like embedded would be
flash or Silverlight programs
for those that aren't aware
flash was like disabled from
browsers in 2012.
It no longer works if you want
to play flash games, you gotta
go to the old browsers and the
old sites.
There's a myriad of reasons, but
security was a big part of that.
Java Uplets would be used.
There is embedding of PDFs.
You don't PDF plugin for
example.
Here download PDF.
Generally, we don't use these
tags anymore.
What we will use is an iframe
generally to embed other like
websites.
So if you want a YouTube video
on your website, you would embed
it in an iframe. You'll give it
a height and width and allow add
whatever properties you need to
allow to, like picture in
picture and script, encrypted
media, gyroscope, autoplay,
accelerometer, clipboard, right.
Why?
You would use some of these like
a gyro scope and accelerometer.
For a YouTube video does not
make sense.
Because the gyroscope is about
the orientation of your device
and the accelerometer is how
quickly it's moving.
Fun fact, those are always
running on your phones.
But I digress.
And then there's the ability to
say, allow full screen.
So that saying here we're gonna
enable it. So you can see this
content as a full view.
You do need to have some kind of
fall back content.
This'll ensure that your content
is displayed instead.
It's like, hey, we can't embed
content in your browser, doesn't
support it. Or here's a link to
whatever you're trying to show.
Source will be a URL if since
you're embedding content, it
will be in absolute URL to
another website.
You shouldn't try to embed your
own content into your site. You
can just include your content
instead.
You can target the size of your
iframes with CSS or you can hard
code it here with pixels as
width and height.
So do you allow full screen?
It's that bullying attribute
that says, hey, this content can
be full screened.
So if you have a nested.
YouTube video or Netflix video
or whatever other content you're
sharing when they click the full
screen button, it'll actually
allow them to take over the full
browser window.
So.
There is a series of breaches
that can be done with iframes.
They essentially act as an
attack vector for your site.
If you aren't careful of what
content you're linking to,
people can go do man in the
middle attacks and pull control
over the user's device.
Only use an iframe if absolutely
necessary.
Use the sandbox attribute to
restrict what the embedded
content may do.
So sandbox equals empty.
It doesn't allow anything other
than to show the content.
Sandbox equals allow popups
means hey the embedded pop up
can create another or the
embedded content can create
another browser window that's
got some pop up content.
Words don't just don't allow
that.
The the guy who created the pop
up has gone on record to say it
was the worst mistake he ever
made.
They're annoying.
Don't. Don't use them. If you
absolutely don't need to.
And then if you wanted to allow
pop ups and scripts, you would
allow that in the sandbox.
You can deny site other websites
from embedding your content. So
say for example you want to.
Oh yeah, so.
Instead of using this header,
use the frame ancestors
directive with the security.
So this is course content
security policy.
It'll allow it to say, hey,
don't load this content or do
load this content. I will have
to update these slides, but.
The frame ancestors is the way
to go.
And just a quick summary.
So now you know how to add
images and actually make them
make the images relevant to the
display size that's being used.
We've seen how to add consistent
video and audio and make it, you
know, cross plat or cross
browser compatible.
We know how to actually say hey,
here is my MIME type for my
image so that the browser can
correctly render it.
And we learned how to embed
external websites or external
pages into our content.
That's all I have for today.
Next class will be starting to
look at what our next lab will
be.
I will be getting your lab one
grades back to you guys this
week.
I had a bit of a busy weekend
this weekend, so I'm sorry that
I didn't get back yet.
And we'll be working through
some of what needs to be done
for the lab.
Any questions or concerns around
the content that was talked
today?
All right.
Well, thanks guys.
Have an awesome day.